
#element #django #python #database



# Models Overview
____________________________________________________
Django models serve as the sole repository of data that one aims to archive. These models encapsulate all the crucial fields and behaviors of the data under consideration. It's commonplace for a model to correlate with a single database table.

__Key Points to Remember__:
* Every model is a Python class that is a subclasses of  `django.db.models.Models`
* Each attribute of a model represents an individual database field
* Once your model has been defined, Django provides an auto-generated database-access API for your use.



## Simple Example

The model below defines a `Person`, characterized by `first_name` and` last_name`:
```
from django.db import models
class Person(models.Model):
	first_name = models.CharField(max_length=30)
	last_name = models.CharField(max_length=30)
```
`first_name` and `last_name` are the fields of this model. Each field is denoted as a class attribute in the code, where each attribute directly maps to a database column.


Subsequently, the `Person` model generates a database table as follows:
```
CREATE TABLE myapp_person (
	"id" bigint NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS INDENTITY,
	"first_name" varchar(30) NOT NULL,
	"last_name" varchar(30) NOT NULL
);
```
Take into consideration that:
* The table name is automatically inferred from the model metadata but can be manually overwritten.
- An 'id' field is auto-included, but can be deactivated if necessary.
- The SQL syntax portrayed here adopts the PostgreSQL format. However, the model will apply the appropriate SQL formatting based on the backend defined in the settings file.

## Further Information on using Models:
[[Model Fields]]
[[Using a Model]] 


## Resources
[Models | Django documentation | Django (djangoproject.com)](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/topics/db/models/)